Welcome in this lecture.
And the next a continuation lecture.
We are going to be working on getting a hostname so when I hit host now we get a host game menu that
allows us to enter you enter any name at all and go ahead and host that game.
And then we're going to go over to our main menu and join.
And when we join from another instance we are going to see the server name that we specified as you
can see here donkey instead of the random string that we were getting before.
And if you're using steam then the host name is actually going to be your steam username.
So this is all starting to make sense.
Now let's dive in and see how we can achieve this.
So in this letter we are investigating customer session settings.
We're going to be looking at how we can set custom session settings how we can retrieve them and how
we can use this fundamentally to set a server name for our specific sir.
But on steam.
So the customer settings are the easiest way to do this let's dive in and see first of all how we are
going to be setting them.
So I'm going to go in to my puzzel platforms game instance and in here.
Whoops I've already started typing That's all I've typed.
As you can see from the Save is that were going to add a line to assertion just underneath where we're
setting our session settings and we are going to do a session settings dot and then we're going to do
a dot set and Dot set.
Let's have a look at the documentation for it.
So just looking at the documentation for f online session settings are also linked.
You'll notice in here we have got a set.
But we have no we have a get as well which is useful for getting a combination of B sessions.
So okay we've got session settings we can set it but what does it take.
There's a couple of things it takes.
It takes a key which is just an F name.
It takes a value type and it takes an E.
Online data advertised minute time.
So let's take a look at that one that's a bit more confusing than the others.
That tells us whether or not this session should tell other computers that are going to join whether
they need.
Well basically this data whether it should be via any online service by paying via both the safe side
you can use just the via online services and paying that I'll make sure that your data gets sent across.
And what about this other type that we had here the value type.
Well to get a bit more information on that actually going to need to look in the engine code.
So I'm going to F 12 to the sight of the definition of this which is under let's see session setting
c p p s few from session settings P that we could go with.
I think we want the one that ends with just the f name and value type and the E Online.
So the last one I believe and if we go and have a look at this then just above it in the definition
we have got some explicit instantiation of supported types for the set template.
So this tells us the types basically that we can be passing in we could have an n30 to we could have
a float a you 64 a double an F string a ball and an array of any of these types.
So that's pretty straightforward there's not many options here but there's quite enough for us to be
getting on with and certainly enough for us to send a name.
So let's begin with sending.
I'm just going use the text macro to build up some text.
And that's going to be this going to be the f name and I'm going to call this test for now.
So we're sending across a test property and I am going to send create an F string.
Mike so we need to create it like this because otherwise it won't know which type.
The one you want to make.
And so we're explicitly creating an F string for it and then just came to.
Put it in Helo and then we need to do the advertisement type produce e online data advertise moment
type coelen COME ON consent and we don't want to select do not advertise which is the default.
We want to select VI online service and ping which will advertise it by steam at an overload on local
local networks so we can save that and that has added in a session setting.
Now we need the flip side of this which is where we get said sessions setting.
We do this in find so you should get on our on our find session complete.
We will be getting back these serve a search result.
And this service search result we can get some of the session information from.
So how do we do that.
We do search result.
Dot and then we get the session and then from the session we need to get the session settings like so
so we can do session settings Dort get Which gets us back to the social settings we put in in the first
place and we can put in an f name here so you can use the text macro.
And we said it was called test with a capital T and now this is a geter which has an out parameter.
So were going to have to pass it the string we wanted to populate and will need to test the boolean
result.
So what we're going to do is we are going to create the string up front which is going to be the data
we're going to pass that data into the getta.
And then we are going to do an if statement wrap the whole thing.
And that will tell us whether or not the get was successful.
If it was successful we are going to do a u e log we underscore log log temp warning.
Just for visibility.
And then we're going to do text and.
Data found in settings.
And I'm going to do a percent s to format the string.
It's going to be data which should be safe because then populated and it's going to be data so it is
a string so we're going to get the internal representation with a star in front of it and that should
do the trick.
Now in an else statement so if this fails I want to also know about that.
So I am going to put a log just saying that we didn't get expected data.
And I'm going to go ahead and remove the text from that log message and see what's up with the log message
we've got above.
Looks like I'm double using the word data because we've got the server data and then the string which
is going to be just the test setting instead we'll just use that copier in there places that we care
about go ahead and build and see whether this works.
Okay the bill succeeded so we can go ahead and launch up from the power shell.
So I open up my power shell I'm going to launch a couple of the game instances so they can see each
other and hopefully they will tell us about that information they found in the fine server.
So once that started up we can go ahead and host and join.
On the other one.
Going to the joining one Wait for it to come up with our server.
There we go.
There is a server.
And if we go to the logs for that server that's just done the find which is the other log that seems
and then we have data found in settings.
Hello.
So that's fantastic.
Our retrieve custom settings has worked.
So I'm going to give you a fairly sizable challenge here to actually go ahead and do the whole setting
the server name thing for yourself including creating all the UI.
So set a custom server name is the challenge you're going to model the UI from the join and you remember
before we had a jury many that actually took a string so it's very very similar to what we want to do
with our setting.
A server name you need to enter a server name into a text box and you need to send the text and value
up to create session when the okay button or create session or whatever button is pressed.
So pause the video and have a go at this challenge.
Okay welcome back.
Quite an open ended challenge so let's dive in here.
You can obviously implement it in many ways and all of them would be right.
So it's not necessarily that there's one correct way.
There are many correct ways so I'm going to work backwards from the way that we currently create the
session.
So we have somewhere I imagine in an interface if I remember correctly or go to my many interface dot
H in here we have a host function which doesn't take anything at the moment but were going to change
that to take an F string of let's see it's going to be the server name.
Like so and we are going to look for where that is implemented in game instance store H and copy.
And in fact we're going to take a copy while we're at it.
So copying host.
And going over to the game instance dot H.
And locating our host in here there is a host override.
PACE In that go over to the C++.
And we've got to find the host in here as well.
So let's just do that by searching.
There it is.
And I will change the signature for that too.
Mike so.
And then once we've got that done we need to go and change it where we're calling it from which is the
menu C plus plus so many c p p We are going to do host look for host.
It's in here somewhere.
If I don't go deleting all my files we will have house being called here in the many interface.
So for now I'm just going to put in a place holder name of hello.
That should do for the time being.
Now back to at game isn't s.p. where we are basically doing our f string server name and at the moment
we are destroying a session and creating it again.
So that's an asynchronous operation so we're going to want to set our server name or desired server
name at this stage so it can be used later on.
I'm going to create a private variable.
I'm going to call it.
It's during that server name can go down to the private section to do that.
I'm going to put it.
Let's see.
Just before crate session because that's where we're going to use it storing server name and I'm going
to call it desired.
Server Name.
And we're going to set that desired server name as soon as we get it in host.
So again go host desired server name equals server name because there's only one thing going on with
this game instance.
We can do this.
We can take a copy of that serve name.
Store it there for later.
And then when we actually get to create our session we can use the string of desired server name instead.
In our session settings not set months ago change the name of that property to something a bit more
meaningful in fact we're not going to do is I'm going to create a constant f name like we've got four
session name.
I'm going to change it not Session name it's going to be the server name settings key.
Like so.
And the text of that is going to be server name in camel case like that.
Now I'm going to copy this constant this new name constant that we've got and locate the place we're
using it with the set get to replace its server name settings key and presto that looks pretty good.
So we are going to use the same over in our find wherever we're doing the fine.
Let me find the find or the on find session complete.
There we go.
I can do a get for an new key.
It's not going to be test setting any more.
It's actually going to be let's see server name like so good copy that through.
And we're not going to be logging this anymore.
What we're going to be doing instead is we're actually going to be setting the data's server name in
here.
So if it was successful we're setting it to being the server name that was populated by the get.
If it wasn't successful we're going to just use a place holder like could not get server name.
I could not find name something like that which we will display instead.
Best thing in the world.
But if that should happen at least we've got some default in there.
So let's go ahead build and see if this is all working correctly.
It looks like I've typed data instead of data.
Easy typo to make.
So while that's going we're going to go over to the main menu widget in the unreel editor so let's launch
that up and get our main widget and we're going to have to add a new item underneath the menu switcher.
So I'm actually going to copy the join menu for that I believe.
So let's take our join menu.
Copy it.
Click on any switcher paste it and what we've got here now is.
Bit of a mess actually hasn't quite come out as I expected it.
I wonder why it doesn't seem to.
Have everything stacked as I would have expected.
Let's undo that and see why that happened.
Okay.
Doesn't one let me undo that.
But I can take the image and vertical box that it's created extra and remove those big cars.
Strange indeed.
No it's not quite worked out at all.
So I'm going to remove that size box entirely.
Going to click on and join menu.
Copy it again.
Hopefully this time it will work.
Paste it.
Nope it hasn't worked as an x.
Weird going on here underneath the vertical box it seems to have created some sort of copy.
So I'm going to save it compile and let's see maybe if I close this blueprint editor and open it again
maybe it'll work.
As it was originally intended.
Something is definitely going on that's a bit odd.
Here we've got too many too many things perhaps maybe only to build this up from scratch.
I'm going to delete that size box at the root of the hierarchy and try a little bit of a simpler approach
of building it up from the bottom up instead.
It's still got a few extra things.
Image and vertical box still want to be there for some reason.
So I am going to delete them one by one.
Which still isn't working and now sure enough my editor has gone and crash so I'm not sure what kind
of bug we were running into here but I'm going to go and relaunch the editor.
Okay so after my editor crashing again I'm going to decide I'm actually going to leave this in so that
I can show you what we can do to work around these kinds of bugs because I can't get back to a state
where that blueprint is work.
But what we can do this is why we use version control is go and reset it in the vertical control so
I am going to find that file.
I am going to discard its changes and say yes I'm happy that we're discarding the main menu changes
and I can go and edit the you project again.
So now sure enough our main menu is back to normal so actually going to take a copy of our main menu
rather than join many it seems like the joy many may be too complicated.
So I'm going to copy from.
In fact I'm not going to copy at the root of that.
I'm going to copy the canvas panel just in case I've got a hunch that it might be to do with the naming
of these size boxes so I'm going to copy our canvas panel.
Paste it under the menu switcher.
Sure enough we've only got one root there.
If I right click it I get a wrap with and wrap it with that see what have we chosen for the other ones
the other ones are.
What type.
They are a size box.
Some are going to right click and wrap with a size box like soap.
And that gives us something that is an identical replica of that main menu.
So I'm going to change the text of main menu to host game like so.
And I'm going to change the text of the buttons to be cancelled.
And the other one is going to be host.
Set of join.
Like so.
And hopefully I can rename these size box as well.
So what size box which I'm going to rename to the.
Host menu.
Like so anticipating that we're going to need to bind it like we did before.
And also let's go down into the overlay to our vertical box and where we've got our vertical box with
the size box here.
I am going to put in a text box.
So let's go and look for the asset for that.
Text box in textbooks.
Common are going to put it underneath this sized box.
I'm going to.
Let's see.
I got it in the right place.
Could put it inside that size box.
Like so.
I'm not going to mess around with the styling for now.
I am going to change this too.
This size.
This box text box.
Editable text box to have a different name.
I'm going to name it.
Host.
Or rather server hostname.
Mike's so and then we're going to need to go ahead and bind this over in our C++ now because this lecture
is getting rather long.
I'm going to tackle the challenge solution in the next lecture so I will see you there.